So far,
we've shown you how a binding API can offer you a really easy way of
mapping your POJOs to their equivalent JSON structure.
But in the real world, things are rarely so easy.
You may find that you have a POJO in your application that is a
slightly different structure to the JSON,
but still want a benefit form the ease of use of a binding API.
Don't worry, like a fine Savile Row tailor,
Jackson will allow you to customize the way these things fit together.
The first assumption that we want to break free of the
requirements for our POJO to be mutable.
Immutability is an increasingly common pattern in the Java ecosystem.
And it means that once the object is being created,
it's state cannot be modified.
This reduces the scope for bugs in our application.
A practical implication of this in JSON binding terms is that immutable
objects don't have setters and should make their fields final.
If the fields are final, and you have no setters,
how will Jackson construct your object?
Well the best way of solving this problem is to create a constructor that
sets all the fields to your immutable object and tells Jackson to use that
constructor with the @JsonCreator annotation.
Each parameter must correspond to a property in the
JSON object that you're deserializing.
In order to tell Jackson what the name of that field is,
you should use the @JsonProperty annotation.
Awesome!
Now we're consuming JSON into immutable POJOs.
Renaming is another common binding task that can be done
declaratively with annotations in Jackson.
Let's suppose you're consuming JSON where you have a property named name.
Over time,
your development team decides that this isn't a very readable
or appropriate name and it decides the application's POJO
property should be applicantName.
But you still want to bind the JSON with the same format as
before so as not to break your wire format.
Well,
you can just put the @JsonProperty annotation onto either the
getter or setter or the field of the POJO.
And this tells Jackson to set the JSON property with
the name specified by the annotation.
Similarly,
sometimes you may have some fields in your Java POJO that you
don't want to be set for JSON bindings.
Perhaps these contain data structures that are not
serialized or you want to keep secret, for example,
a field storing a password.
This is where Jackson's @JsonIgnore annotation comes in.
Simply add this to a setter or a getter and Jackson won't complain if the
jobs field is missing or being used by another setter.
Finally, let's take a look at the pattern for transforming properties.
Maybe you're storing data internally in your object in one data structure,
but only want to use a JSON array for the serialized format.
You can write a setter that builds up the internal data
structure from the serialized format.
For example here, we're taking a list of jobs for our loan application,
but the internal data structure is a map where it creates the key from the
title of the job and its value is the job object itself.
This transformation approach of writing custom setter works fine for
individual fields that may have a different representation.
Sometimes you may want to have a different representation entirely.
For example, if you take a LocalDate object in Java,
such as 21st of May 1984, I want to represent it in JSON,
then you may wish to use a string representation using the
ISO 8601 standard for data formatting.
You don't have to write a custom setter for every
LocalDate field in your application.
Thankfully,
Jackson offers a way of writing custom deserializers for fields for given types.
It includes one for LocalDate in its library.
In order to register the custom deserializer,
you need to create a Jackson module,
which is like a registry for deserializers and
associated deserializer object for the type.
This module may now be registered with your ObjectMapper, and hey, presto, readable LocalDate objects.